# BIOMD0000000075: Xu2003_Phosphoinositide_turnover

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000075.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000075.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Xu2003 - Phosphoinositide turnover

The model reproduces the percentage change of PIP_PM, PIP2_PM and IP3_Cyt as
depicted in Figure 1 of the paper. The model also contains the equations for
the analysis of PH-GFP experiments, however the initial value of PH_GFP has
been set to zero to more accurately reproduce Figure 1. The units of cytosolic
species are given in molecules/um^3. In order to convert them to uM, divide
the concentration by 602. For the analysis of PH_GFP experiments, one should
plug in the values of PH_GFP, IP3_PHGFP and PIP2_PHGFP from Table AI in the
appendix. The model was successfully tested on MathSBML.

This model has been generated by VCell

This model is described in the article:

[Kinetic analysis of receptor-activated phosphoinositide
turnover.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/12771127)

Xu C, Watras J, Loew LM.

J. Cell Biol. 2003 May; 161(4): 779-791

Abstract:

We studied the bradykinin-induced changes in phosphoinositide composition of
N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells using a combination of biochemistry, microscope
imaging, and mathematical modeling. Phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate
(PIP2) decreased over the first 30 s, and then recovered over the following
2-3 min. However, the rate and amount of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3)
production were much greater than the rate or amount of PIP2 decline. A
mathematical model of phosphoinositide turnover based on this data predicted
that PIP2 synthesis is also stimulated by bradykinin, causing an early
transient increase in its concentration. This was subsequently confirmed
experimentally. Then, we used single-cell microscopy to further examine
phosphoinositide turnover by following the translocation of the pleckstrin
homology domain of PLCdelta1 fused to green fluorescent protein (PH-GFP). The
observed time course could be simulated by incorporating binding of PIP2 and
InsP3 to PH-GFP into the model that had been used to analyze the biochemistry.
Furthermore, this analysis could help to resolve a controversy over whether
the translocation of PH-GFP from membrane to cytosol is due to a decrease in
PIP2 on the membrane or an increase in InsP3 in cytosol; by computationally
clamping the concentrations of each of these compounds, the model shows how
both contribute to the dynamics of probe translocation.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000075](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000075) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


